get ready for a
[Music]
huh definitely didn't do that one right
let's try it again get ready for uh much
better so if I'm being honest this is
less a theory and more wild overreaching
speculation with just a light amount of
evidence a game hypothesis if you will a
personal headcanon that to me makes
stress level zeros Metaverse of killer
dogs and inception style universe
hopping significantly more compelling
and it's exactly what I alluded to last
episode that David this little blond kid
from duck season the one who's
blockbuster rental weakened becomes a
desperate fight for survival that he it
grows up to become Arthur Ford our
secret double agent Pro barring
aficionado and bond works it's a
high-tech 2020s version of sanz's nest
except this time I think there's a slim
super slim itty-bitty chance and it
might be right so let's just get the
formality out of the way and talk about
it hello Internet welcome to game theory
let's begin what first got me going down
this insane rabbit hole was this scene
in the early game of bone works as
you're walking down the streets filled
with turret BOTS and headcrabs here
suddenly back in a mana GaN office
lunchroom and you see this a small
replica of a suburban home not only did
the out of nowhere inclusion of a tiny
house in the middle of an otherwise
sterile office setting set off my
theorists tingles it got a lot of
viewers at home to tingle to howler
Burchfield says it's the house from duck
season oh is it these are the housing
duck season that's a good question we
did do a demonic ritual in a tree house
with some swarm I believe this to be a
replica of David's house from duck
season now admittedly it's not perfect
there are some windows that are out of
place a sliding door is missing in the
fences a different style but the
essential elements are there namely this
dog house and this outdoor play set in
the backyard very intentionally put
there by the developers to show us the
parallels between these two houses plus
in the best men ending of duck season we
watch as the dog Sprint's around the
outside of the house before being taken
down in the backyard with the
appropriate amount of force
the news coverage of this low-speed
chase shows us the outside of David's
house and it proves that it does indeed
have a railed in front landing just like
we see in the model again it's not exact
but it's certainly close enough to
suggest that these two houses are meant
to be one in the same but why would a
replica of David's house be in mana
Gon's break room but we see attached to
the house a series of oversized pipes
all leading up to a giant black box with
the monoghan logo could this be a Monica
a server or an actual monoghan office
based on the small door that we see at
the base of the structure it makes it
look like it's an actual building and as
we approach the end game of bone works
we see these sorts of pipes making a
reappearance at the base of the time
tower before our big battle to restart
the system the pipes are here along the
left wall in a room full of wouldn't you
know it duck season displays in the
center we have what can be assumed to be
a magical void Rock presumably one of
the first discoveries that allowed mana
GaN to tap into the mysterious powers of
the void and over here on the right we
see our infamous cat cryptid 9 when we
talked about a lot in the last episode
alongside the gamin King bit gaming
console and a bunch of clocks we know
from duck season and duck season PC but
these are all objects and characters
that are able to cross into and out of
the void space so it appears that mana
GaN secured them and studied them in
order to understand how they could tap
into and utilize the void in building
their myth os City meaning that the
material flowing through those pipes is
presumably the void energy that's
powering the whole operation so what
does any of this have to do with David's
house well the events of duck season
were pretty clearly the first instance
of a void based creature coming out into
the real world the secret message from 9
the cat we covered last video confirms
this it's been 30 years since the void
was last opened so that's a pretty big
deal in short David's house becomes the
nexus point this gateway into another
dimension plus it's easy to forget that
duck season has a cannon ending
explicitly labeled as the cannon ending
you don't do that unless you plan to do
something with that story later on and
in the cannon ending we watch as David
successfully destroys the killer dog and
leaves his house but look again there's
an important detail here notice that
when the dog explode
you see as particles are up everywhere
they don't disappear they don't fade
away David also smashes the haunted
cartridge that leaves it and his King
bit gaming system back at his house
before burying his mother and running
away into the distance it seems clear to
me that monoghan learned of David's
story researched the house and tapped
into the remnant void energy that was
found there between the dog particles
the cursed cartridge in the game system
the house is like a hotspot a void and
by building their office near that hot
spot and tapping into it using their
pipes monoghan has been able to use the
void energy to build their business and
their BR city and already you can start
to see how David might be playing a
bigger role in the story he's the only
one who truly knows what happened inside
his house that some being left out of a
TV to attack him and his family he's
also got a very personal stake in all of
this in duck season David loses a lot to
the boy his mother is killed by a void
creature he's forced to leave home and
never return in fact it's likely he's
held responsible for his mother's death
the police aren't gonna believe that
some otherworldly creature out of a TV
and killed her it would mean that he's
practically a criminal on the run it
also means that it would probably have
to change his name away from David into
something different maybe something like
Arthur I mean if I were him and had to
go through all that I'd want to make
sure to either seek revenge on all other
void based cryptids were ensure that the
void is closed forever or make sure that
I'm the one exploiting the void for my
own good and as I said before in the
cannon ending of duck season David is
still out there he's on the road his
story continues on so we've connected
his childhood house to MIT though s and
we've established that David definitely
has the motivation to come back and
interrupt Madigan's void activities
there's one thing I've pointed out in
the previous two theories is that when
Arthur is near the end of his journey
and bone works after resetting the myth
system and preparing to enter the bone
works layer of the system he's led
through a door by avoid being but
there's some really particular details
about that door first the knob is made
of David's old baseball one presumably
given to him by his father who was
himself a professional baseball player
we can assume this since we know that
David's dad played for a team with the
dog mascot and a dog character has
clearly signed the ball now why would
that ball be there of all places
on the boundary between myth OS and the
boy it makes zero sense and the cannon
ending David just leaves his house he
doesn't enter the void he doesn't
transition any objects into it so it
implies that either someone in game
program that detail in as an Easter Egg
to his original house hereby
commemorating the thing that made void
technology possible to begin with or
that this whole sequence is somehow a
product of Arthur's mind in which case
you would have to have been aware of the
ball and it would presumably be
meaningful to him in some way so that's
all well and good but the kicker to me
quite honestly the strongest bit of
evidence for this game hypothesis is the
other strange detail of the store two
words welcome home the void is literally
welcoming Arthur back is it because time
is repeating and we've been through this
door before maybe as we've established
the void does seem to exist beyond time
but this plus the baseball on the same
door means that the two Clues need to be
taken together which reads much more
clearly as a person coming full circle
or a third coming back to where it all
began
he's home again but he wasn't around for
when it all began
or was he if Arthur and David are truly
one in the same these two little details
of the baseball and the text welcoming
him home would make a lot of sense
Arthur's journey would have started when
he was attacked by a killer dodging
video game and he's dedicated his life
sins to getting his revenge and at this
juncture and bone works he is truly
finally home he's back to where his
journey first started he's now ready to
face the creatures of the void one more
time
welcome home could also mean something
else when he go through the door the
game suddenly changes drastically we go
from a portal s future world with
sterile visuals and modern aesthetics to
a dark dungeon lit by torches the final
level of the game is a literal fantasy
world with the old e Coliseum ye oldie
dungeons and yon castle wither it is a
jarring switch for the gameplay but if
you've been paying attention it does
make some level of sense you see it
seems that we've been dropped into
Fantasyland a game that's been hinted at
throughout various posters and binders
in bone works a game that we're told is
being produced by stress levels 0
Studios yep in the lore of the game
stress level 0 is itself a character and
canonical entity that works just like it
does in the real world
producing games just again like infin a
vr where scott cawthon kindness order
almost maybe inserts himself into the
lord oh wait no it's a different indie
developer but still very closely
parallels to his own personal story I'm
not looking for reasons to draw
parallels between these two now why
would I bring that detail up one is the
welcome home could be implying that
Arthur once worked at stress level zero
so he's coming home to an old and
presumably long-forgotten project
alternatively and more excitingly
consider this last episode I showcased
one of the secret Easter eggs from duck
season that had you unlocking a stress
level zero showcase booth like the type
of installation you'd see at an industry
event like e3 or at least III back when
people cared about it and not III now
we're literally no company wants to
attend this year it's just gonna be me
they're holding a Mad Catz controller
and oversized novelty bag full of
sadness anyway that showcase room has
two very clear and deliberate sides one
inside the booth itself and one outside
where randomly we see mom working on her
computer could it be that she works at
stress level zero studios producing
early games for them that Fantasyland
was one of her earliest projects and so
David being welcomed home is him
returning back to the unfinished game
that his mother once worked on at her
old company an early early prototype
that was trying to build a VR experience
off the power of the void it could be
and here is where everything starts to
come together you see I don't just think
that David is Arthur I think that David
is Arthur Ford and is also the dog we've
established time and time again that the
void exists beyond time so an older
version of David coming back to send a
message to his younger version
absolutely makes sense
we know that David's father was in a
baseball team with a dog mascot so
future David could choose to disguise
himself in that way there's also the
mystery of the final it's me tape from
duck season where the dog sends a
message to David you me baby I thought
that that was a father sending a loving
message to his son you're my baby back
in my very first theory on duck season
but knowing that the dog isn't the
father what does this message mean well
it could translate to you or me
as a child we also also know that in one
of the games other endings the dog is
sympathetic towards David when he gets
trapped inside the boy he's not a killer
all the time why why would a future
David dress as a dog to revisit his
earlier self to kill his mother and
potentially himself well it's to prevent
an apocalypse last episode we talked a
lot about how the next game in the
stress level zero Metaverse is gonna be
about a machine uprising where monsters
from the void wipe humanity out or
something like that and we just talked
about how David's mom working at stress
level zero studios could be working on
some of the earliest tests of a void
based game to me this all reads as
future David going back to where the
void first opens in an attempt to stop
her to stop it all from happening to
stop people from accessing the void and
thereby releasing these monsters out
into the real world he's closing the
loop except it doesn't work young David
kills his older self and Monahan is able
to steal the technology for themselves
anyway like I said wild speculation but
the clues and definitely the
storytelling are certainly there anyway
going back to the slightly less
aggressive theory of David being Arthur
we know that duck season takes place in
the summer of 1988 it's in the steam
description for the game it's also made
clear based on the calendar mom has
posted on the kitchen refrigerator
according to the game's wiki David is 11
years old
moving over to bone works we know that
Arthur Ford's attack on mana GaN is
happening in 1997 shortly before myth OS
City opens to the public this would make
David roughly 20 still young but
certainly old enough to look like this
and be holding down a full-time job this
is especially true when you compare his
look to his coworkers Elora and Hayes
who themselves also look to be on the
younger side now there is one big
elephant in the room
David's looks versus Arthur's looks you
might immediately point out that David
is super blonde as a kid and Arthur Ford
is decidedly not and yeah I get that
that is huge evidence against the theory
and one of the reasons I started the
whole episode out by calling this wild
speculation with just a pinch of
evidence sprinkled in then again it is a
fact that children's hair color can and
often does change naturally when they go
through puberty with blond towheaded
children seeing their hair darken to
brown as the amount of you melanin in
the hair increases when they mature I
was one such kid a blonde bombshell
back in the day and now just you know I
got a mop of muddy poop brown on my head
well barely even that anymore because I
shaved it all off for charity
so that could explain away the
difference in hair the difference in eye
color on the other hand though is a lot
harder to get away with shirt like hair
color eye color can change with age it
happens to 10 to 15 percent of the
Caucasian population but there's one big
catch with that it only tends to happen
to children under the age of 1 then
again there is one other explanation
here and one that I alluded to a bit
earlier you know what changes both a
person's hair color and their eye color
dyes and contacts people on the run in
witness protection someone looking to
change their identity like I don't know
someone who might be held accountable
for the murder of his mom just saying
and so there it is my rationale for
white David from duck season and Arthur
from bone works are one and the same as
well as my further rationale and wild
speculation as to why both of them are
probably also the dog from duck season I
still personally think there's plenty of
evidence to link all three of them David
has the motivation he's the right age
his house is directly connected to
Montague on and the bone works literally
welcomes him back to the void the
character design differences sure that
is a blow to this theory but we also
came up with an explanation for that too
plus you know what in videogames
characters looks evolve
I mean Kirby used to look like this and
Mario used to look like this and Sonic
this so you know it could change anyway
that's what I got didn't turn out to be
much of a mini theory considering I'm on
page 5 right now but you know what they
never do speaking of small things though
are you looking for some new year buds I
was because I'm being honest I lost my
old pair on a plane so I started testing
out rakin wireless earbuds our sponsor
for today's episode and these things are
great
and since why I'm promoting them on the
channel first and foremost they're half
the price of any premium wireless ear
but out there which for the guy who just
lost his last pair on a plane alongside
his bottle of water and the gingerbread
cookies they give you makes you feel
pretty dang good you're less concerned
about losing them plus rate on earbuds
are the shape that actually fit and stay
in your ears that's like problem numero
uno with most wireless earbuds for me if
they're too round and fat they just
don't get them to sit cleanly in your
ears so what's the point if I'm just
gonna worry about them falling out well
with Ray Con there's no worries there I
actually made myself dizzy
to see if they would fall out so that
way I could report that back to you so
you know hey if you're the type of
person that worries about the thing like
I do you don't have to worry you can
shake your head like a maniac and it's
not gonna fall out so the fit does a
great job of not only staying secure in
your ears I love how the case is hinged
I love how easy they were pair and in
addition to the great depth of sound
they provide their latest model the e25
has more bass more fun colors and six
hours of playtime per charge which again
takes care of my other big pet peeve
with fast wireless headsets I've had so
the long story short here wireless
headphones and I have a rocky history
because they're too expensive
they don't fit their battery lives are
short and rake hunt earbuds takes care
of all three of those big concerns plus
if you click the links in the
description right now you get 15% off
your order which makes that low price
even better so there you have it guys a
mini theory that turned out to be larger
than I expected coupled with a mini
earbud that delivers you huge sound and
even bigger savings feels appropriate to
pair the two of them like a wireless
headset pairs to your Bluetooth device
anyway like I said click the link down
in the description to get 15% off your
order now if you'll excuse me I am super
excited to talk about a game that isn't
bone works because I started this thing
and it was gonna be a one off theory and
now it's a three partner so anyway until
next time remember that's just a theory
up but not really thanks for watching